.TH ado_refits 1 "28 Jun 1996"
.SH NAME
ado_refits \- reformat an Adonis FITS file to standard FITS 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ado_refits
[options] <FITS files...>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ado_refits
is used to 'reformat' features in the cube header that 
may not comply 100% with the FITS standard.
If time information is present in the images, it is removed
from the planes and written in the header.
.LP
Output files have the same name as input files, but no leading path
name. To overwrite files, use 
.B ado_refits
in the directory where you put your data files.
If you do not want to overwrite your files, go into the directory where
you want to put the new set of files, and fetch the files by giving their
complete path name.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c
Convert HIERACH keywords to COMMENT. This is useful when dealing with
ESO FITS files which contain this non-standard FITS feature. 
.B ado_refits
keeps the same header by default, and converts these keywords to
COMMENTs for compatibility with other FITS readers.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
All files are in current directory, to overwrite them with reformated data,
just use:
.LP
.B ado_refits
*.fits
.LP
All files are in directory /dev/cdrom/adonis, to output the newly reformated
files in /space/data, you would do:
.LP
% cd /space/data
.br
% ado_refits /dev/cdrom/adonis/*.fits
.SH FILES
.LP
Input files are in Adonis FITS format
.LP
Output files are (hopefully) FITS compliant. They do not contain the
time information in the planes anymore, but directly in the FITS header.
Time information is added at the end, under HISTORY keywords. Use the
.B dfits
utility to visualize them, output them to a text file, etc.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The FITS reader implemented in eclipse has been enhanced to support
common errors made in FITS writing. Nevertheless, these errors have
to be reported to the user, and they are in verbose mode. Reporting
these FITS errors to the originators of the files could help a lot
improving the quality of these files.
.LP 
Typically, the most common reported error is:
.br
*** Invalid format : using STRING
.br 
which is generated for illegal keyword values such as:
.br
DOOR    = Opened
.br 
which should be:
.br
DOOR    = 'Opened'
.LP
For more information, see the 'sci.astro.fits' newsgroup, or
get the file "Source of FITS information" at the following URL:
.LP
http://ssdoo.gsfc.nasa.gov/astro/fits/fits_home.html
.br
(updated July 1996)
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
N. Devillard -- ESO
