.TH average 1 "29 Mar 2001"
.SH NAME
average \- cube averaging
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B average 
[options] [parameters]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B average
reduces a FITS cube over its third dimension, by applying one of several
possible algorithms described below. Users should specify a cut and a
method. The cut describes how planes in the input cube are grouped for
averaging, the method specifies what kind of average is applied.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BI \-i " <incube> " or " " \--in " <incube>"
Specifies the name of the input cube (mandatory).
.TP
.BI \-o " <outcube> " or " " \--out " <outcube>"
Specifies the name of the output cube (optional). Default output name
for an input cube named
.I incube.fits
is 
.I incube.avg.fits.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Cuts
.PP
Cuts specify how to group the input planes to apply the average. Default
cut is
.I \--cut whole.
.TP
.BI \--cut " whole"
applies the average on the whole cube, i.e. all planes are averaged to a
single one according to the requested method.
.TP
.BI \--cut " cycle " \--step " <n>"
applies the average for every
.I "<n>"
planes in the input cube. For example, if the input cube contains 50
planes and this cut is specified with n=10, the planes will be averaged
10 by 10 to produce one cube in output containing 5 planes.
.TP
.BI \--cut " running " \--halfwidth " <h>"
Performs a running average: the output is a cube containing as many
planes as the input cube. Each plane is the result of an average over
an interval centered on the same plane in the input, plus or minus <h>
planes. This means that central planes will be the average of 2h+1 input
planes, and edge planes will be an average of between h+1 and 2h+1 input
planes.
.PP
Example: the input cube has 6 planes, h=2. Brackets show where the
central plane is at each iteration.
.PP
plane 1 is built from [1] 2  3
.br
plane 2 is built from  1 [2] 3  4
.br
plane 3 is built from  1  2 [3] 4  5
.br
plane 4 is built from     2  3 [4] 5  6
.br
plane 5 is built from        3  4 [5] 6
.br
plane 6 is built from           4  5 [6]
.PP
Methods
.PP
Methods specify how to perform the average. Default is linear.
.TP
.BI \--method " linear"
Performs a normal, linear average of the input planes.
.TP
.BI \--method " sum"
Same as linear, but does not divide by the number of averaged planes at
the end. Useful for cubes which do not have much signal.
.TP
.BI \--method " median"
Median filtering along the z-axis.
.TP
.BI \--method " filtered "
with additional parameters
.BI \--filt-low " npix"
and
.BI \--filt-high " npix".
This is actually an extension of the median average. A time line is
extracted for each pixel position on the detector (along the z-axis),
and then sorted out. The median average would only keep the central
value, whereas this method requests two numbers specifying how many
low and high pixels shall be rejected before making an average.
.SH FILES
.PP
Input files shall all comply with FITS format.
.SH BUGS
.PP
It is not yet possible to combine a running filter cut with a filtered
average method.
