.TH catcube 1 "18 May 1998"
.SH NAME
catcube \- cube/image concatenation to one cube 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B catcube
[options] [-o output] <cube1> [cube2] ... [cube n]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B catcube
creates an output cube that is sum on the z-axis of all other cubes
given on command line in order of appearance from left to right. e.g.
.br
.B catcube
\-o outcube cube.001 cube.002 image.001 cube.003
.br
will create an output cube 'outcube' with planes consisting of planes
cube.001 first, then planes of cube.002, then image.001, then cube.003.
All planes shall have the same size (width, height). The pixel depth of
the output cube is the most restrictive, i.e. the one which needs the
highest amount of bits.
.B catcube
accepts jokers on command line :
.br
\> catcube -o output.fits ADO*.fits
.PP
The default output name is 'cat.fits'. The \-o option may be specified
anywhere on the command line. Example: the following lines are strictly
equivalent:
.PP
.B catcube
f0001 f0002 -o output.fits f003 f004
.PP
.B catcube
-o output.fits f0001 f0002 f003 f004
.PP
.B catcube
f0001 f0002 f003 f004 -o output.fits
.SH FILES
.PP
Input files shall all comply with FITS format
Output file pixel type is the highest input pixel type encountered.
.PP
The original FITS header  of the first given FITS file on command line
is conserved along, except for the following keywords:
NAXIS, NAXISn, BITPIX, BSCALE, BZERO, which are related to the
newly created file.
.PP
HISTORY keywords are appended to the FITS header to indicate the eclipse
process modifications.
