.TH eclipse 1 "29 Nov 1999"
.SH NAME
eclipse \- (ESO C Library for an Image Processing Software Environment)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B eclipse
is a general FITS image processing library written in ANSI C. 
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Initially written for Adonis,
.B eclipse
has since grown to a general multi-purpose FITS handling utility. It has
been reported to be used on many telescope workstations and
observatories.
.PP
Today,
.B eclipse
is used in ESO to implement fast image processing algorithms for the VLT
infrared instruments.
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B eclipse
offers an open environment for image processing algorithm developments.
At the highest level, only Unix commands are offered, giving users the
possibility to call the algorithms embedded into the library. One level
below is a library of several hundred functions taking care of many
aspects of astronomical image processing. Users will want to use only
Unix commands to process their data, programmers and algorithm
developers will want to peek into the libraries to implement their own
routines.
.PP
All of these procedures are running without user interaction, which is
typical of a pipeline, number-crunching approach.
.PP
Notice that a link to off-line data processing softwares is essential.
eclipse does not provide any complex post-processing algorithm such as
deconvolution, nor does it contain any image or data displayer. Global
data analyzers such as MIDAS provide the full range of functionalities
needed for evolved post-processing and analyses; eclipse is to be used
as a pre-processor, a signal processing engine.
.PP
Since version 4.2, all FITS read/write functions have been moved  away
from
.B eclipse
to give birth to a small, efficient and easy-to-use FITS io library:
.B qfits.
.B eclipse
needs and is distributed with
.B qfits

.SH ADONIS
.PP
A set of scripts and Unix commands has been especially designed to take
care of most basic data reductions for Adonis. This has been set up
during August 1996 in la Silla, with h.PP from observers, telescope and
Adonis team.
.PP
The following set of operations has been automated:
.PP
    flat-field creation
.br    
    bad pixel detection
.br    
    sky extraction from data cube, averaging, and subtraction from
.br    
    object frames
.br    
    average of the result
.PP    
There is a preparation phase, during which the observer has to identify
their files according to their logbook, and sort them out, preferrably
in separate directories. It is then possible to design quickly a Unix
script to launch a unique reduction command on all directories, and get
cleaned data in a very short time.
.PP
Since version 2.0, a new set of commands is available for
Adonis Fabry-Perot mode. This work has been validated in Summer
1997 in la Silla, by Christian Drouet d'Aubigny, with h.PP from
Patrice Corporon and David le Mignant.
.SH SOFI/ISAAC
.PP
SOFI and ISAAC are two ESO infrared instruments. SOFI is working on the
NTT in la Silla, ISAAC is installed on the UT1 telescope of the
VLT. These instruments are mostly used in jitter mode, which requires
dedicated optimized algorithms for data processing. Some commands have
been written to handle pipeline data processing, they are integrated in
the VLT data flow system as data reduction engine for these modes, as a
complement to on-line MIDAS. Both imaging and spectroscopic modes are
supported for ISAAC.
.SH NACO
.PP
NACO is an infrared instument that work with an adaptive optic system. The
data reduction is similar as the one used for ISAAC. Reduction recipe have
been developed with the ISAAC experience and adapted to this new
instrument. Support for the NACO instrument has been present in 
.B eclipse
since version 4.0
.SH LICENSE
.B eclipse
is covered by the GNU public general license, which makes
possible to distribute it on the World Wide Web. It should be included
in future MIDAS distributions as a contribution for pipeline processing. 
.PP
I would like to thank all people participating in the High Resolution
Data Reduction Working Group for their kind h.PP and patience in
detailing the secrets of Infra-red data processing
.PP
Special thanks to our friends in la Silla, Patrice Corporon and
David le Mignant, for their invaluable h.PP.
.PP
Most eclipse documentation is available on-line on the ESO server at
the following address:
.PP
http://www.eso.org/eclipse
.SH INTERNAL PIXEL REPRESENTATION
.PP
A note about the internal pixel representation:
.PP
The convention in use throughout eclipse is to work with single
precision pixels internally, i.e. all pixel buffers are float *, which
limits the precision to 32 bits in IEEE floating point format for all
pixel operations. This is usually enough for most data reduction
procedures, and gains time in terms of memory use.
.PP
You may want however to work with double precision pixels, to increase
computation accuracy. Know that the memory use in much more intensive in
this case, the most probable case being that all cubes will be swapped
to disk for any pixel operation involving several planes of a cube, the
amount of time used for the same operation being more than twice the one
needed with single-precision pixels: disk accesses are usually a factor
1000 slower than memory accesses.
.PP
Since version 2.1, it is possible to work with pixels stored as double
precision numbers. The FITS interfaces have been upgraded to
allow input and output in FITS -64 IEEE double format, and the internal
pixel representation may be double, on user request.
.PP
This change from single to double precision is not dynamic but can only
be requested at compilation time. The procedure to follow to compile
eclipse with double precision pixels is described in the INSTALL file.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.PP
.B eclipse
is distributed on the WWW under the following URL:
.br
http://www.eso.org/eclipse
