.TH encircl 1 "04 Dec 96"
.SH NAME
encircl \- Encircled Energy Computation 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B encircl
[options] <cubes> <parameters>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B encircl
computes the encircled energy for every plane in a cube given
on command line. See ALGORITHM to know how it is computed.
.B encircl
needs to be given some parameters in order to work. These parameters are 
the approximate position of the peak on which the user wants to find 
encircled energy radius, as well as the percentage of the total energy for
which the radius is wanted.   
.SH ALGORITHM
.PP
For each image in each cube (candidate image), the following algorithm
is applied:
.PP
1. Check the validity of the window.
.PP
2. Find the position of the pixel of maximum intensity and re-center the
window on that pixel.
.PP
3. Calculate the energy encircled in the 100 % radius and multiply it
by the percentage of the total energy for which the radius is wanted.
.PP
4. Calculate the encircled energy for every radius from 1 pixel to the
100 % radius and store the results in an array.
.PP
5. Look up the array to find the two entries whose values are nearest 
to that corresponding to the percentage of interrest of the total energy. 
.PP
6. Use a linear interpolation to find more precisely what the radius is.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p " Plate Scale"
Plate scale in arc-seconds per pixel, for an output in arc-seconds.
.TP
.BI \-r " Radius"
To override the hard coded size of the 100 % energy radius (1.4").
.TP
.BI \-h " half-size"
To override the default 20 pix value of the window half size.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
To determine the radius for which the encircled energy is 50 % of the total 
encircled energy for an star whose energy we know to be located in a window 
of 42x42 pixels roughly centered on pixel 60,60 of image star.fits with a 
plate scale of 0.1" we want to set the 100 % energy radius to 1.1"  
use:
.PP
.B encircl
-h 21 -p 0.1 -r 1.1 star.fits 60 60 50
.SH FILES
.PP
Files shall all comply with FITS format
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
stcube, strehl
