.TH fft 1 "28 Jun 96"
.SH NAME
fft \- fft 2d on an image 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fft
[options] <in> <out>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LR
.B fft
computes a Fast Fourier Transform on an input image.
.B fft
can also compute an inverse FFT. Results can have swapped quadrants, and can be
expressed in polar or cartesian coordinates.
.PP
Take care about the formats : polar/cartesian and swapped/unswapped.
The default procedure is:
.PP
In input of a forward FFT, an image is required. It is taken as the real
part (in cartesian coordinates) of a complex 2d signal which imaginary
part is set to zeros. The output of a forward FFT is a complex 2d signal,
i.e. 2 image planes. By default, the output is converted to polar
coordinates (modulus, phase), and then quadrants are swapped
in both modulus and phase to put low frequencies at the center of the images.
To prevent this default behaviour, use the
.B \-n
and
.B \-c
options described below.
.PP
In input of an inverse FFT, a cube containing 2 images is required. It is
taken as a complex 2d signal which first plane contains the modulus and
second plane contains the phase. Before the inverse FFT is computed, a
swapping of quadrants occurs, and then a conversion to cartesian (real,
imaginary) coordinates is performed. To prevent quadrant swapping or
cartesian conversion, use the
.B \-n
and
.B \-c
options described below.
.PP
The output of an inverse FFT is a cube containing 2 images in cartesian
unswapped format, first one being the real part, second one being the
imaginary part (meaningless imagewise).
.SH ALGORITHM
.LR
.B fft
uses the Danielson-Lanczos lemma, in a code based on one originally written
by N. M. Brenner, described in Numerical Recipes in C.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c " or " \--noconv
Switches to cartesian mode the following data:
.br
output for a forward FFT (default is polar), or input for an inverse FFT.
.TP
.B \-i " or " \--inverse
Inverse FFT. The input is a cube containing two planes only. Default I/O
format for these 2 planes is polar coordinates (modulus, phase). It will output
a cube containing 1 plane only (imaginary part is meaningless imagewise).
The input will be swapped before FFT, unless the 
.B \-n
option is used.
.TP
.B \-n " or " \--noswap
This option prevents 
.B fft
from swapping the output of a forward FFT and the input of an inverse FFT.
.TP
.B \-s " or " \--swaponly
This option can be used to apply the swapping and quit.
.PP
Swapping is done according to the following rule :
.br
1 2
.br
4 3
.br
becomes then
.br
3 4
.br
2 1 
.br
which puts then the lowest frequencies at the center of the image.
.SH FILES
.PP
Input files shall all comply with FITS format.
