.TH ipaste 1 "25 Feb 1997"
.SH NAME 
ipaste \- paste an image into another 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipaste
[parameters] [options] frame insert [out] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ipaste
inserts an image into another one.
.I insert
is the image to insert and
.I frame
the image which receives the insertion.
Default output name is 'pasted.fits'.
.PP
.B ipaste
requires 2 coordinates in the frame image referential, indicating the point
where the first pixel of the insert image should be pasted. The image is
then inserted in its original orientation. 
.PP
If the inserted image is too big to fit on right or top side, it is clipped
to the frame image limits (
.B ipaste
outputs a warning).
.PP
Default is: insert image starting from lower left corner (1,1) of frame
image.
.PP
Coordinates are referred to as in the FITS standard: lower left pixel
is (1,1), x increasing from left to right and y increasing from bottom
to top.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-x " xpos"
Defines x coordinate lower left corner of place to insert.
Default is 1 (first column on left).
.TP
.BI \-y " ypos"
Defines y coordinate lower left corner of place to insert.
Default is 1 (first line on bottom).
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The frame image is frame.fits, the inserted one is pad.fits,
the output name being defaulted. Let frame.fits be
of size 400x300, and pad.fits be 20x10. To insert
pad.fits in the upper right corner of frame.fits, do:
.br
%
.B ipaste
\-x 380 -y 290 frame.fits pad.fits
.br
The output is named pasted.fits.
.PP
To insert pad.fits in upper left corner of frame.fits, do:
.br
%
.B ipaste
\-x 1 -y 290 frame.fits pad.fits
.PP
To insert in the center of the image, do:
.br
%
.B ipaste
\-x 190 -y 145 frame.fits pad.fits
.SH FILES
.PP
Input/output files shall all comply with FITS format.
.PP
The original FITS header of the 'frame' FITS file
is conserved along, except for the following keywords:
NAXIS, NAXISn, BITPIX, BSCALE, BZERO, which are related to the
newly created file.
.PP
HISTORY keywords are appended to the FITS header to indicate the
eclipse process modifications, together with the command line which
was used to generate the file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.B extract
