.TH jitter 1 "31 July 2000"
.SH NAME
jitter \- ISAAC (SW and LW) / SOFI / NACO jitter imaging reduction 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jitter 
[flags] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B jitter
reduces images taken in infrared jitter imaging mode. It makes a number
of assumptions on the input signal and has a list of several possible
algorithms with associated parameters for each reduction stage.
.LP
.B jitter
has been developped to reduce jitter imaging data taken from infrared
instruments, e.g. IRAC2, SOFI, ISAAC or NACO. Although some features are
specific to the two latter instruments, it is reasonable to think that
the same algorithms should work on similar data.
.LP
.B jitter
is configured through an initialization file. The name of this file is
defaulted to
.I jitter.ini
but can be changed through the use of the \-f option. In the following
documentation, this file is referred to as
.I the ini file.
.SH PROCESS
.LP
The
.B jitter
data reduction process is divided into flat-fielding/dark
subtraction/bad pixel correction, sky estimation and subtraction, frame
offset detection, frame re-centering, frame stacking to a single frame,
and optional post-processing tasks. Some processes may be deactivated
depending on what you intend to do with the data. Describing all the
algorithms in this command is far beyond the scope of this manual page.
A documentation about the jitter algorithm can be found on the eclipse
web site.
.LP
To setup the process, you need first to generate a default jitter.ini
file and then change parameters according to your needs. This
initialization file is self-documented.
.SH FLAGS
.LP
Flags which can be activated on the command-line are the following:
.TP
.B \-t or \--time
Activate time estimation tools. This actually triggers a clock when the
process is running and produces duration estimations in CPU and user
time at the end.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c or \--calib " calib.ascii"
This option can only be used together with the \-g option. It will generate
a default ini file where the names of the calibration files are deduced
from the contents of the provided 'calib.ascii' file. This file should
contain two columns: the first one gives the name of the calibration file,
the second one specifies its type.
.TP
.B \-f or \--file " filename"
Changes the name of the ini file from 
.I jitter.ini
to
.I filename.
.TP
.B \-g or \--generate
Generates a default ini file in the current directory, and a default
empty frame list called
.I framelist.ascii.
You can fill up the ASCII list of input names by using the ls command:
.br
ls \-1 *.fits >> framelist.ascii
.br
or:
.br
dfits *.fits | fitsort DPR.TYPE >> framelist.ascii
.br
Of course, the list of frames need not be named 'framelist.ascii', this
is the default name only. Change it if you wish in the ini file.
.TP
.B \-A or \--algorithm " algo"
is used together with the \-g option to generate an ini file with the
defaults set for the specified instrument. Possible values for algo are 
isaac-sw, isaac-lw, naco-sw or auto.
.TP
.B \-w or \--gui
Launches a GUI to use jitter
.TP
.B \-h or \--help
Displays a short reminder of possible options and flags.
.TP
.B \-i or \--in " filename"
This option can only be used together with the \-g option. It will generate
a default ini file where the name of the input framelist is not the default
but the one provided to this option.
.TP
.B \-o or \--out " basename"
This option can only be used together with the \-g option. It will generate
a default ini file where the output basename is not the default but the one
provided to this option.
.SH FILES
.LP
The ini file which is generated by using the -g option is
self-documented, all parameters are described in the file comments.
.LP
The ini file consists of [Sections] followed by
.br
.B keyword = value
lines.
.LP
Section names and keywords are case-insensitive. Values associated to
keuwords may be integer, floating point numbers, character strings, or
flags. Types associated to keywords are usually indicated in the comment
section. Character strings as keyword values are
case-sensitive. Flags are given as Yes/Y/yes or No/N/no. 
.LP
Comments in the ini file are identified by lines starting with
a hash (#) sign, and generally everything after a semicolon (;) and
before the end of the line. The semicolon is not mandatory, the two
5A
following lines are strictly equivalent:
.LP
ExposureTime = 1000 ; integer value in seconds
.br
ExposureTime = 1000
.LP
It is advised to use the \-A option when the ini file is generated. 
.B jitter
can reduce data from several instruments. Each instrument has its own
defaults. To generate an ini file with the defaults for a given instrument,
specify the instrument with this \-A option. 
