.TH norm 1 "25 Feb 1997"
.SH NAME
norm \- normalize a cube/image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B norm
[options] <incube> [outcube] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LR
.B norm
is used to normalize a cube with respect to a unity pixel scale,
a unity mean pixel value, a unity flux, or a unity absolute flux.
.B norm
can also scale all fluxes in a cube to a given value (see -f option)
or to the flux of the first plane in the cube.
.SH ALGORITHM
.PP
.B norm
supports several normalization schemes. See options.
.PP
For a cube, the normalization is applied to each plane independently.
.PP
default output name for in.fits is in.norm.fits
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m " scale"
normalizes pixel values so that the minimum value is 0.0 and the
maximum is 1.0. All other pixel values are scaled accordingly.
No use is made of the BSCALE and BZERO FITS keywords for this!
This means that some pixel depth resolution is usually lost in
this operation.
.TP
.B \-m " mean"
normalizes pixel values so that the mean pixel value is 1.0.
.TP
.B \-m " flux"
normalizes the image to a unity flux, i.e. divide the image by the
sum of all pixel values.
.TP
.B \-m " aflux"
normalizes the image to an absolute unity flux, i.e. divide the
image by the sum of all absolute pixel values.
.TP
.B \-m " scaleflux"
used with the -f option, this mode scales all plane fluxes to
the parameter given with the -f option. Without this parameter,
all plane fluxes are scaled according to the flux in the first
plane of the input cube.
.TP
.B \-f " reqFlux"
to be used with the "scaleflux" mode only. This parameter specifies
to which flux value all planes fluxes have to be rescaled.
.SH FILES
.PP
Input files shall all comply with FITS format.
