.TH peak 1 "04 Sept 1998"
.SH NAME
peak \- peak measurements 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B peak
[options] image.fits  
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B peak
detects localizes bright object centroids in an image. It takes as
argument a list of FITS cube names and outputs on stdout the center of
each detected bright zone, an estimation of FWHM in x and y, an average
FWHM, a flux estimation, and the minimum and maximum pixel values around
each object.
.PP
Two different detection method can be used with the 
.B peak
command: the 'kappa-sigma' method (default) or the 'squares' method (use
the -m (--method) option to choose).
.PP
With the 'kappa-sigma' method, bright objects are detected if and only if 
they contain a peak of sufficient amplitude i.e. more than K deviations above 
the median image value, AND if they cover a surface at least of 3x3 pixels. 
To detect peaks located in a window smaller than 3x3, there is an option to 
smear out the image by a low-pass filter before applying peak detection, but
of course it has associated drawbacks.
By default,
.B peak
will be looking at all the signal which is more than 2 deviations above
the median pixel value. This value can be changed using the \-k (or
\--kappa) option.
Notice that this is not more than kappa-sigma clipping for signal
detection, except that to avoid mis-estimation of the mean and sigma in
crowded fields, the measurements are done with the median and a
deviation which is the average absolute distance to the median.
.PP
In the 'square' method, a standard deviation filter is apply to the image,
which has the effect to make the bright points appear like squares. This
squares image is then used as a mask to detect objects.
.PP
In spite of calls to morphological filters, 
.B peak 
is surprisingly faster than other usual algorithms. It should be used
as a peak position estimator more than a precise locator, though. 
.SH ALGORITHMS
.PP
.B Kappa-sigma method
.PP
If smearing is activated, the input image is smeared out with a low-pass
5x5 filter before detection is applied. This filtered version of the
input image is only used for detection purposes, and not for any kind of
later measurement.
.PP
A binary map is first created of all pixel positions which have a value
above a given threshold (by default, median plus 2 deviations).
.PP
A binary morphological erosion, and a dilation are then performed
on the binary map to close all regions smaller than 3x3, which removes
all isolated bad pixels. If smearing was applied, small objects would
have been enlarged to bigger than 3x3 and appear in the resulting pixel
map.
.PP
A floodfill algorithm is applied to find the geometric center of
all white blobs, weighted by pixel values taken from the original image.
.PP
.B Squares method
.PP
A standard deviation filter is applied to the image which make the bright
objects appaear like bright squares. This bright squares image is then
binarized and used as a mask to identify zones where the objects are in the
original image. A morphological closing is then applied, and the remaining
objects are registered.
.PP
For both methods, if fine positioning is activated (\-f or \--finepos option), 
a subsequent process is called, which requests 3 user-defined radiuses in
pixels: r1, r2, and r3. For each found peak position in the image, a
background is computed as the median pixel value in the ring centered on
the estimated peak position, of radiuses r2 and r3. Then a barycenter is
computed within the disk centered on the same spot, of radius r1, using
background-subtracted pixel values as weights. This fine positioning
method proves quite reliable, but requires all peaks in the image
to have more or less the same size to fit into the circles defined by
r1, r2, r3.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-m " "clip " or " \--method " "clip
Use 'kappa-sigma' detection method.
.TP
.BI \-m " "squares " or " \--method " "squares
Use 'squares' detection method.
.TP
.BI \-k " cut " or " " \--kappa " cut"
To be used for 'kappa-sigma' method.
Use this option to change the cut level in a factor of deviations. The
lower this value, the more bright zones may be detected. The higher this
factor is, the less detected peaks. The default of 2.0 seems to work
fine on images having a high Signal to Noise Ratios.
.TP
.B \-s " or " \--smear
This option (low-pass filter) applies a 5x5 convolution with
a flat kernel before trying to detect objects. The smearing is
h.PPful to detect objects which are smaller than a 3x3 window.
It increases the number of detections, but also the number of
false detections. Bad pixels, for example, are smeared out to
a 5x5 window and detected as proper peaks. Another issue
is that 2 close peaks will be smeared out to a single one. Most
probably, the returned result will be a barycenter of the 2 regions
instead of the 2 expected centers. Because the smearing will lower the
signal in all regions, the default sigma cut is halved when this options
is used.
.TP
.BI \-S " or " \--sqhsize " 'hx hy'"
To be used for 'squares' method.
Define the size of the standard deviation filter applied to generate the
squares image. The bigger the filter is, the bigger the squares are.
.TP
.BI \-f " 'r1 r2 r3' " or " " \--fpos " 'r1 r2 r3'"
Fine positioning: provide three values r1 < r2 < r3.
The radiuses r2 and r3 specify a ring around each
detected point, from which an estimation of the background is computed.
A barycenter is then computed in the disk of radius r1, using
background-subtracted pixel values as weights. No defaults are given
to these parameters.
.br
Be aware when using this position refining that it assumes the
following conditions.
.PP
All peaks are isolated, i.e. the closest distance between 2 peaks is
strictly greater than 2 * r3.
.PP
There is a background zone around every peak, always within the disk
defined by r2 and r3. Otherwise, the background estimation is contaminated
with peak signals.
.PP
All peaks are contained in a disk of radius r1.
.TP
.BI \-F " or " \--fwhm 
Flag to print out the fhwm for detected objects.
.TP
.BI \-P " or " \--phot " 'r1 r2 r3'"
Provides the radiuses used to compute photometry.
.TP
.BI \-d " or " \--rtd 
Flag to display detected objects in rtd.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Peaks located on an image edge will not be detected.
