.TH setpix 1 "17 July 2000"
.SH NAME
setpix \- batch command to set pixel values from a list in a text file 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setpix
[options] <in> [out]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B setpix
takes a list of 2-d pixel positions and pixel values, and the name of
a FITS file (a data cube, an image, a pixel map or an ASCII list). For a
given image, it goes to all requested pixel positions and changes the pixel
value to the one requested in the list. For a cube, the process is repeated
identically over all the planes in the file. For an ASCII list, the process
is repeated over all planes in the list and the output is a single FITS
file with multiple planes (i.e. a cube).
.PP
Example:
.br
The text file 'regions.txt' contains the following data:
.br
----- begin regions.txt -----
.br
#
.br
# file: regions.txt
.br
# defines pixels to be set
.br
#
.br
1 1 0.0
.br
128 128 100.0
.br
256 256 1000.0
.br
----- end regions.txt   -----
.PP
Using the following command:
.br
% setpix \-f regions.txt image1.fits
.br
would make the following changes in the image 'image1.fits':
.PP
pixel value at position (1,1) is changed to 0.0
.br
pixel value at position (128,128) is changed to 100.0
.br
pixel value at position (256,256) is changed to 1000.0
.PP
The text file specifying pixel positions and pixel values respects 
the following syntax rules:
.PP
Any line beginning with a hash (#) is a comment, thus not processed.
.PP
Pixel positions are given as integer values. They follow the FITS convention
for pixel positions: first pixel of the image is located at coordinates
(1,1) in the lower left corner of the image. X is increasing from left
to right, Y from bottom to top.
.PP
Pixel values are given as floating point numbers. For pixel maps, these
values are rounded up to the nearest integer value lower than the one
requested.
.PP
Default output file name for a file named 'file.fits' is 'file_set.fits'.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " regions.txt"
Declares the name of the file containing pixel positions and values. Default
name for this file is "pts.txt".
.SH FILES
.PP
Data files shall all comply with FITS format
.PP
The list of pixel positions and values is a text file, respecting the
syntax described above.
