.TH spjitter 1 "13 Jan 2003"
.SH NAME
spjitter \- ISAAC (SW and LW) jitter spectroscopic reduction 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spjitter 
[flags] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B spjitter
reduces images taken in jitter spectroscopic mode. It has a list of several
possible algorithms with associated parameters for each reduction stage.
.LP
.B spjitter
has been developped to reduce jitter spectroscopic data taken from ISAAC in
both chopping and non-chopping modes with both SW or LW arms. Although
some features  are  specific to this instrument, the same algorithms should
work on similar data.
.LP
.B spjitter
is configured through an initialization file. The name of this file is
defaulted to spjitter.ini but can  be  changed  through the use of the -f
option. In thefollowing documentation, this file is referred to as 
.I the ini file.
.SH PROCESS
.LP
The reduction process is composed by files classification, correction of
the distortion, re-centering of the frames, flatfield correction,
averaging, wavelength calibration, frames combination, detection,
extraction of a spectrum. Describing all the algorithms in this command is
far beyond the scope of this manual page.
.LP
A documentation about the spjitter algorithm is in progress at the
moment.
.LP
To setup the process, you need first to generate a default spjitter.ini file
and then change parameters according to your needs. This initialization
file is self-documented.
.SH FLAGS
.LP
Flags which can be activated on the command-line are the following:
.TP
.B \-t or \--time
Activate time estimation tools. This actually triggers a clock when the
process is running and produces duration estimations in CPU and user
time at the end.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c or \--calib " calib.ascii"
This option can only be used together with the \-g option. It will generate
a default ini file where the names of the calibration files are deduced
from the contents of the provided 'calib.ascii' file. This file should
contain two columns: the first one gives the name of the calibration file,
the second one specifies its type.
.TP
.B \-f or \--file " filename"
Changes the name of the ini file from 
.I spjitter.ini
to
.I filename.
.TP
.B \-g or \--generate
Generates a default ini file in the current directory, and a default
empty frame list called
.I framelist.ascii.
You can fill up the ASCII list of input names by using the ls command:
.br
ls \-1 *.fits >> framelist.ascii
.br
or:
.br
dfits *.fits | fitsort DPR.TYPE >> framelist.ascii
.br
Of course, the list of frames need not be named 'framelist.ascii', this
is the default name only. Change it if you wish in the ini file.
.TP
.B \-A or \--algorithm " algo"
is used together with the \-g option to generate an ini file with the
defaults set for the specified instrument. Possible values for algo are 
chop, nochop or auto.
.TP
.B \-w or \--gui
Launches a GUI to use spjitter
.TP
.B \-h or \--help
Displays a short reminder of possible options and flags.
.TP
.B \-i or \--in " filename"
This option can only be used together with the \-g option. It will generate
a default ini file where the name of the input framelist is not the default
but the one provided to this option.
.TP
.B \-o or \--out " basename"
This option can only be used together with the \-g option. It will generate
a default ini file where the output basename is not the default but the one
provided to this option.
.SH FILES
.LP
The ini file which is generated by using the -g option is
self-documented, all parameters are described in the file comments.
.LP
The ini file consists of [Sections] followed by
.br
.B keyword = value
lines.
.LP
Section names and keywords are case-insensitive. Values associated to
keuwords may be integer, floating point numbers, character strings, or
flags. Types associated to keywords are usually indicated in the comment
section. Character strings as keyword values are
case-sensitive. Flags are given as Yes/Y/yes or No/N/no. 
.LP
Comments in the ini file are identified by lines starting with
a hash (#) sign, and generally everything after a semicolon (;) and
before the end of the line. The semicolon is not mandatory, the two
5A
following lines are strictly equivalent:
.LP
ExposureTime = 1000 ; integer value in seconds
.br
ExposureTime = 1000
.LP
It is advised to use the \-A option when the ini file is generated. 
