.TH stcube 1 "28 Feb 2001"
.SH NAME
stcube \- cube statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stcube
[options] <cubes...>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B stcube
gives basic statistics about each plane in a cube. It is used to have a
quick look at what kind of data is in the cube.
.PP
The display looks like :
.PP
#--------------------------------------------------
.br
# FILE stdstar_check.fits
.br
# PLANE  MIN   MAX      MEAN      MEDIAN    STDEV
.br
  0001   -287  9709.33  15.0937   0.833328  228.504
.br
#--------------------------------------------------
.PP
For each plane:
.PP
MIN is the minimum value.
.PP
MAX is the maximum value.
.PP
MEAN is the average pixel value.
.PP
MEDIAN is the median pixel value.
.PP
STDEV is the standard deviation.
.PP
There is one display for each FITS file given on command line.
.B stcube
accepts jokers on command line :
.br
> stcube *.fits
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-b or \--badpixmap" " filename"
give a bad pixel map to take into account when computing statistics on
the cube.
.TP
.BI "\-z or \--zone" " 'llx lly urx ury'"
To compute statistics only on a rectangular zone in the images. The zone
is specified by indicating the coordinates of the lower-left and
upper-right corners of the rectangle. Borders are inclusive.
The coordinate system is the one used by FITS, namely that the lower left
pixel in the image is labelled (1,1), x-axis increasing from left to right,
y-axis increasing from bottom to top.
.TP
.BI \-s " or " \--stdev " <name>"
To compute a standard deviation frame (only), with name <name>.
This mode of
.B stcube
accepts only one input file name, which should correspond to the name
of a 3d FITS file or a valid ASCII list (i.e. a data cube). The input
cube is processed to obtain a frame that is giving the standard
deviation of all pixels along time. If several input names are
provided, only the first one will be taken into account.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To compute the standard deviation frame named 'stdev.fits'
from a cube named 'cube.fits', you would use:
.br
> stcube --stdev stdev.fits cube.fits
.PP
To compute statistics on the lower left quadrant only of a
256x256 image, you would use:
.br
> stcube --zone '1 1 128 128' image.fits
