.TH std 1 "25 January 1999"
.SH NAME
std \- standard star search 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B std
[search] [display]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B std
is a command-line tool which allows to browse an internal database of infra-red
standard stars.
.B std
contains internally a database of more than 800 stars, built-up by
J.G.Cuby. 
From the catalog, it is possible to select stars based on a
position criterion, name, sky region, or magnitude in a given band.
Results can be displayed in different formats.
.SH SEARCH OPTIONS
.PP
Search options are related to different user-defined criteria to select
a number of stars in the database. The following are implemented:
.TP
.BI \-p/--pos " HH MM SS HH MM SS" or "DD DD"
If this is the only search criterion on the command-line, only the
closest star to this position will be returned. The position can be
provided as hours, minutes, seconds for RA and DEC (6 values expected) or
simply in degrees (2 values expected).
.TP
.BI \-r/--radius " value"
Together with the \--pos option, this specifies a radius around a sky
position. All stars within this region will be selected.
.TP
.BI \-n/--name " value"
To search stars by name. The provided value is a regular expression, all
stars matching it will be selected.
.TP
.BI \-m/--mag " band min max"
To search stars by magnitude range in a given wave band. Supported wave
bands are: J, H, K, Ks, L, Lprime, M, Mprime. Minimum and maximum magnitudes 
define a range into which all stars are selected.
.SH DISPLAY OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-k/--key
To display the output in keyword format.
.SH FILES
.PP
The star database contains the following informations about stars (in
this order):
.br
Name of the star
.br
RA and DEC in HH:MM:SS format
.br
Spectral type
.br
Magnitudes in J, H, K, Ks, L, M.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To print out the closest star from position '10 12' (in degrees):
.br
.B std
\--pos "10 12"
.PP
To print out all stars within 10 degrees of this position:
.br
.B std
\--pos "10 12" \--radius 10
.PP
To print out all stars which name matches "FS*"
.br
.B std
\--name "FS*"
.PP
To look for all stars in band L having a magnitude between 5 and 6:
.br
.B std
\--mag "L 5 6"
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
It is not yet possible to combine selection criteria.
