.TH strehl 1 "30 Jul 1996"
.SH NAME
strehl \- Strehl ratio computation 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B strehl
[options] <cubes...>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B strehl
computes the Strehl ratio for every plane in every cube given on command
line. See ALGORITHM to know how it is computed.
.B strehl
needs to know some parameters about the mirror and observation wavelength
to generate the ideal PSF. Defaults for these parameters are taken for
NACO, use the options to feed other values.
.B strehl
accepts jokers on command line :
.br
> strehl *.fits
.PP
ATTENTION! The input image must be square (same size in x and y), and this
size shall be a power of 2! This to allow a correct PSF generation. 
.SH ALGORITHM
.PP
For each image in each cube (candidate image), the following algorithm
is applied:
.PP
1. Generate a PSF for a given telescope configuration and observation
wavelength.
.PP
2. Compute the PSF flux and the PSF peak.
.PP
3. Detect the brightest star (if not provided on the command line).
.PP
4. Compute the star peak and the star flux. This step requires a very
precise background estimation. A tiny error on the background can have a
strong effect on the computed strehl.
.PP
5. Strehl = (star_peak/star_flux) / (psf_peak/pasf_flux)
.PP
6. Compute the error on the Strehl
.PP
Attention: the theoretical PSF is generated only once per call! When
giving several cubes on command-line, it is up to the user to check
that the same parameters are valid for all files (check the wavelength).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-g
An ideal PSF is generated for Strehl ratio computation. Using this
option, a FITS file named 'psf1.fits' is generated in the current
directory, containing the generated ideal PSF (of Strehl ratio equal
to 1). Use it to cross-check that the generated PSF fits your
computation.
.TP
.BI \-p " diameter"
Primary mirror diameter in meters. Default to 8. This value
is actually 8.2 meters, corrected to take into account the central
obscuration ratio.
.TP
.BI \-d " diameter"
Secondary mirror diameter in meters. Default to 1.1.
.TP
.BI \-l " 'lambda0 dlambda'"
Do not forget the simple quotes around the 2 values. First value
is the central wavelength of observation. Second value is the filter
width. Values are given in microns.
.br
Defaults to 5 and 0.1.
.TP
.BI \-s " pixelscale"
Pixel Scale in arc seconds. Defaults to 0.05.
.TP
.BI \-P " 'x y'"
x and y are the pixel position of the star used to compute the strehl. If
not provided, an automatic bright star detection procedure is applied.
.TP
.BI \-r " radius"
radius is the star radius in arcsecond used to compute the star flux.
default is 2.0 arcsec.
.TP
.BI \-R " 'rad_in rad_out'"
These radii define a ring around the star. This ring is used to compute the
background. If these values are not provided, a different background
estimation method will be used. As the background estimation accuracy is an
issue in the strehl ration computation, it is far better to use this
option.
.TP
.BI \-b " bg"
Used to provide the backgound value.
.TP
.BI \-S " size"
Size in pixels of the square used to compute the PSF flux. Default is 64
pixels. 
.BI \-T " tel"
Used to define defaults for supported telescopes. Supportes ones are "3.60"
and "ut4". Default is "ut4".
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
To compute the strehl ratio over 10 cubes named S001.fits to S010.fits,
on an 8 meter telescope with a 1.5 meter secondary mirror, a central
wavelength of 5.0 um and filter width of 0.1 um, a pixel scale of 0.05,
use:
.PP
.B strehl
\-p 8 -d 1.5 -l '5 0.1' -s 0.05 S*.fits
.SH FILES
.PP
Files shall all comply with FITS format
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
stcube
