.TH wdat 1 "25 Feb 1997"
.SH NAME 
wdat \- read DAT tapes in Adonis format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wdat
[-d device] [-h] [-nr] [-l]
.if n .ti +5n
[-l= file] [-fits] [-log]
.if n .ti +5n
[-e= file] [-e MASK] [-s= file]
.if n .ti +5n
[-s= MASK] [-q]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B wdat
reads DAT tapes written in Adonis format. The Unix tar format is almost
universal, but is not that convenient. It is especially delicate to get
anything out of a tape which had a problem. To prevent this, the Adonis
format uses separate files for each data cube. In case of tape damage,
it is most likely that just one file would be lost instead of all files
after the damaged location. Another nice thing is that files can be read
on the fly and thus deliver information to the user as soon as it is read.
.LP
.B wdat
accepts many options on command-line. Use them to indicate which device
you read the tape from, which files you want to include/exclude, if
you only want to get a list of files, if you want to be notified before
downloading a file, etc. Check below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " device"
where device is the Unix name of the DAT reader on your machine. It is
most often something like /dev/nrst0 or the like. Default value is the
content of the TAPE environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-h
Gives help about
.I wdat
.TP 
.BI \-nr
Does not rewind the tape before first access.
.TP
.BI \-l
list option, only lists DAT contents on terminal.
.TP
.BI \-l= " listfile"
list option, only lists DAT contents to file 'listfile'.
.TP
.BI \-fits
Skips files if they are not FITS files.
.TP
.BI \-log
Automatically translates logfiles (.LOG) from OS-9.
.TP
.BI \-e= " exfile"
exclude option, will exclude from downloading all files which name has
been matched in exfile.
.TP
.BI \-e " MASK"
will exclude all files matching the mask. A mask is a simple character
string, all file names containing this string will be excluded.
.TP
.BI \-s= " selfile"
select option, will select for downloading all files which name has been
matched in selfile.
.TP
.BI \-s " MASK"
will load all files matching the mask. A mask is a simple character string,
only file names containing this string will be loaded.
.TP
.BI \-q
query option, will request user confirmation before any download of a file.
.SH FILES
.LP
Selected/excluded files are simple plain ASCII files containing file
names you want to select/exclude in the following format: names are written
plainly in ASCII, and are separated by carriage returns (other normal
separators would work as well).
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
First, get the list of all files on the tape from a device named /dev/nrst0:
.br
wdat -d /dev/nrst0 -l= mylistfile
.br
Then edit the file to download only the files you wish to,
with any text editor. Extra white spaces are not important. The selection
file shall look like:
.LP
ADONISFILE_0001.FITS
.br
ADONISFILE_0002.FITS
.br
\&.\.\.
.br
.LP
Then, to download only these:
.br
wdat -d /dev/nrst0 -s= mylistfile
.SH BUGS
.LP
To be reported as soon as possible to the author:
.br
Francois Lacombe, Observatoire de Paris-Meudon.
.br
e-mail : Francois.Lacombe@obspm.fr
